Hey! So in this video we are going to cover this Scrapy
code, or go over this code, that Scrapy by default wrote
for us.
And also we will go over the two data points that we scraped
previously.
Let's go to the site.
So, this includes this data point and also this one
and we will yield it in our Scrapy code somewhere
in the parse function.
So, let's begin with the source code itself.
So, as you can see, the Spider subclasses scrapy.Spider
and defines some attributes and methods.
name, for example, identifies obviously the Spider name.
It must be unique within the project, so you can't really
set the same name for a different Spider even though
they are in the same project structure.
allowed_domains is a list of, obviously, allowed domains.
If Scrapy encounters for example, some different domain
other than quotes.toscrape.com it will not process it
and it will automatically filter it out.
Most of the time, you would encounter this if you are
crawling every URL on the site.
start_urls is either by default tuple or you
can define it as a list.
And it's just, it will be pretty much the first URL
that Scrapy will process.
You don't actually need to use www. in that part
so let's exclude this.
And parse is Scrapy default callback method
in the scrapy.Spider or a.k.a. the basic template
that Scrapy offers.
So this method is called when or for the Request
without an explicitly assigned callback.
Defining some other name, for example, will not work
so if you type here foobar, it will not work or
Scrapy will get an error.
It has self, obviously, and the response self is
because it's in a class right and response because
it will get the response object or HTML nodes
or HTML source code from this page.
Let's save it as it is and let's go back to the Terminal.
And here we have two data points.
So the first one is somewhere here above so the
<h1> tag text which is located here.
So if we copy this line and paste it into our parse method
and assign something like h1_tag
as a variable name and it's equal to this XPath selector
and also let's go back to the Terminal.
This is the second data point is located at the end
so if we copy and paste this into our Scrapy code
and name this, for example, tags variable is equal
to pretty much this XPath selector and we will yield
these two items.
So by yielding pretty much these two data points
we will print it out in Scrapy output, and then you
can maybe get this data to the: CSV, JSON, XML or any other
database.
So to yield it we type in obviously the dictionary key.
The first one will be <h1> tag, for example, and obviously
the key will be <h1> tag.
And then the second set of keys and values will be tags.
So type in Tags as a key value and as an actual value,
we type in tags.
We will save this and go back to our Terminal.
And open, actually, an additional Tab here.
Let's maximize this.
And, first things first, of course, we need to go
to our root directory.
So we are changing directory into the Desktop
and then to the quotes_spider.
We hit Enter and if configuration file is present, as it is,
so we are in the root directory, which is great.
So how do you actually run it or run
the Scrapy spider code really is by typing in scrapy.
You don't obviously have to do this, but command is here.
So scrapy crawl, and then run a spider right.
So pretty much type in scrapy, then crawl, and then
name of the spider.
Name of the spider can be retrieved either with
the scrapy list, which will print out two spider names,
so this is the one that we are looking for or you can go
to your Text Editor and see that name is quotes.
So let's copy it from here, go back to the Terminal.
So type in scrapy, then crawl to run,
then scrapy spider and then paste the Spider name.
And let's hit Enter.
And here we have a bunch of really output or logs
and, as you can see, some things really are similar
to the Scrapy Shell so that Scrapy is started overridden
settings, extensions, middlewares, etc.
What you need to know is just pretty much that
when Scrapy is started and when it's finished really.
So pretty much all of these data or rows of the output.
So here we have that Spider is opened that it crawled
at the beginning obviously zero pages, and you will get
this exact message every minute or so, so you can get
how many there are crawled page and also scraped page.
Telnet console so you can copy and paste this IP address
and then listen to it.
And here we have the first URL which is scraped
which is going to go to our home page and then go to
the /robots.txt.
This actually page is not present and that's the reason why
we got 404.
And then the second one is successful which just goes
to the home page.
So let's copy this link and then navigate to the
Google Chrome and then paste it in here.
And as you can see, it's not found, and the reason why
this actually happens is because Scrapy, by default,
so if you go to the root directory, as I was saying,
Scrapy, by default, will go to the start_urls,
and then it will append /robots.txt file to figure out
if there, if well to be a bit more friendlier to the site.
Let's say it like that.
And to figure out the rules of actually what can and cannot
be scraped.
So we want to exclude this so we go to the quotes_spider
and then go to the settings.py.
Open it with your Text Editor, and here, if you see,
there will be comments.
First that, "Obey robots.txt rules", and then
ROBOSTXT_OBEY = True.
What you need to just do is set it to false,
so type in False and then save it, close it,
and then finally go back to the Terminal, let's see
the Terminal is here and then once again run it.
So scrapy crawl and then the name of the Spider
will be quotes.
Hit Enter and you will see that the message
will be removed.
So previously we have somewhere here message that robots.txt
page was crawled and it returned 404 page status
but currently we don't get that because we excluded
ROBOSTXT_OBEY.
So we just scraped one page and as you can see we scraped
it from here and then we in the dictionary keys
set of values, this is pretty much our yield statement.
And since we scraped it just one page then the INFO message
of closing Spider with the message that it's finished
is displayed right after the scrape and then there will be
some bunch of Scrapy stats so these all messages
are pretty much the stats and here what you
need to really know is that if you are scraping
some large site, for example, you will want to see
the response_status_count.
So since we only scraped one page here, we get 200
as successful, as previously discussed and one as a value,
finish_reason which finished also finish_time and also
you have start_time so you can calculate how much
exactly time it took to run Spider.
item_scraped_count is also important
and we only scraped one data or really item because
this is the page that we scraped.
And let's see DEBUG messages and also the INFO messages
which goes to the log_count, so if you got any kind of,
or if you think there was some error in the Spider code,
you will go to the log_count/ERROR and see
if there were any kind of or how many errors.
There would be but, as you can see in our case,
we didn't get any kind of error.
And that would be pretty much it for this video
and I'll see you in the very next one.